Added problem and solution usaco 1332 (#3943)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/platinum/usaco-1332.mdx

          {{0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0}},
          {{1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1}}}};
mat s = {{{{1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0}},
          {{1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1}}}};
mat i = {{{{1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0}},
          {{0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0}},
          {{1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1}}}};
mat identity{{{{1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
              {{0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
              {{0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
              {{0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0}},
              {{0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0}},
              {{0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0}},
              {{0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0}},
              {{1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1}}}};

> mat x;

Reviewer: codesnip this jesus

void get(char c, int p) {
	if (c == 'b') x = b;
	else if (c == 'e') x = e, x[5][6] = p;
	else if (c == 's') x = s;
	else if (c == 'i') x = i;

> 	else x = identity;

Reviewer: braces

}

mat st[4 * N];
string str;
int n;

> void build(int v, int l, int r) {

Reviewer: wrap the segtree vars/funcs in a codesnip

	if (l == r) {
		get(str[l - 1], n - l + 1);
		st[v] = x;
	} else {
		int m = (l + r) >> 1;
		build(v * 2, l, m);
		build(v * 2 + 1, m + 1, r);
		st[v] = st[v * 2] * st[v * 2 + 1];
	}
}

void upd(int i, int v, int l, int r) {
	if (i < l or i > r) {
		return;
	} else if (l == r) {
		st[v] = x;
	} else {
		int m = (l + r) >> 1;
		upd(i, v * 2, l, m);
		upd(i, v * 2 + 1, m + 1, r);
		st[v] = st[v * 2] * st[v * 2 + 1];
	}
}

> signed main() {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
int main() {
```

	ios::sync_with_stdio(0);
	cin.tie(0);
	cin >> str;
	n = str.size();
	build(1, 1, n);
	cout << st[1][0][6] + st[1][7][6] << '\n';
	int t;
	cin >> t;

> 	while (t-- > 0) {

Reviewer: for loop

Now let's try to solve the problem without updates for all substrings.
Let $dp[i]$ be the number of positions of the string we have processed so far such that if we apply the greedy strategy described above, the next character we need to add is the $i$th character ($0$ indexed) of the string "bessie". We add $1$ to $dp[0]$ for every position of the string which represents the substring starting from the current index.

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>
```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	string s;
	cin >> s;
	int n = s.size();
	s = '$' + s;
	long long ans = 0;
	vector<long long> dp(6);
	for (int i = 1; i <= n; i++) {
		vector<long long> ndp(6);
		// substring starting from index i
		dp[0]++;
		for (int j = 0; j < 6; j++) {
			if (s[i] == "bessie"[j]) {
				// Adding new character to our bessie sequence
				ndp[(j + 1) % 6] += dp[j];
				// if we reach the end of a bessie, we need to count the number
				// of substrings that contain it. dp[5] is the number of
				// potential start positions (n - i + 1) is the number of
				// potential end positions (any position including or after
				// index i). We can multiply those to get the number of

> 				// substrings that contain this bessie and add it to the answer.

Reviewer: multiline comment this

---
id: usaco-1332
source: USACO Platinum 2023 March
title: Pareidolia
author: Aakash Gokhale
---

## Explanation

Let's first try to solve the problem without updates on a single string.
Notice that it is always optimal to take the earliest $b$ and then the earliest $e$ and then the earliest $s$ after that and so on because it maximizes the number of places you can search to find the next letter of "bessie".

Now let's try to solve the problem without updates for all substrings.

> Let $dp[i]$ be the number of positions of the string we have processed so far such that if we apply the greedy strategy described above, the next character we need to add is the $i$th character ($0$ indexed) of the string "bessie". We also need to add the substring starting from the current index. If the current letter of the string is $b$, then the next letter we need to add is $e$ so in this case we add $1$ to $dp[1]$. In every other case we need to add $1$ to $dp[0]$ because the next character we add to fill "bessie" is $b$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let $dp[i]$ be the number of positions of the string we have processed so far such that if we apply the greedy strategy described above, the next character we need to add is the $i$th character ($0$ indexed) of the string "bessie". We also need to add the substring starting from the current index. If the current letter of the string is $b$, then the next letter we need to add is $e$ so in this case we add $1$ to $dp[1]$. In every other case, we need to add $1$ to $dp[0]$ because the next character we add to fill "bessie" is $b$.
```

				 */
				if (j == 5) { ans += (n - i + 1) * dp[5]; }
			} else {
				// The case if we can't add new character
				ndp[j] += dp[j];
			}
		}
		swap(ndp, dp);
	}
	cout << ans << endl;
}
```

</CPPSection>
</LanguageSection>

Notice that we can represent the transition from $dp$ to $ndp$ as a system of linear reccurences which depend on the letter.

B:$\\$
$ndp[0] = 0 \\$
$ndp[1] = dp[0] + 1 + dp[1] \\$
$ndp[2] = dp[2] \\$
$ndp[3] = dp[3] \\$
$ndp[4] = dp[4] \\$
$ndp[5] = dp[5] \\$
$newans = ans \\$

E:$\\$
$ndp[0] = dp[0] + 1 + dp[5] \\$
$ndp[1] = 0 \\$
$ndp[2] = dp[1] + dp[2] \\$
$ndp[3] = dp[3] \\$
$ndp[4] = dp[4] \\$
$ndp[5] = 0 \\$
$newans = ans + (n - i + 1) * dp[5] \\$

S:$\\$
$ndp[0] = dp[0] + 1 \\$
$ndp[1] = dp[1] \\$
$ndp[2] = 0 \\$
$ndp[3] = dp[2] \\$
$ndp[4] = dp[3] + dp[4] \\$
$ndp[5] = dp[5] \\$
$newans = ans \\$

I:$\\$
$ndp[0] = dp[0] + 1 \\$
$ndp[1] = dp[1] \\$
$ndp[2] = dp[2] \\$
$ndp[3] = dp[3] \\$
$ndp[4] = 0 \\$
$ndp[5] = dp[4] + dp[5] \\$
$newans = ans \\$

Identity (Any letter other than $b$, $e$, $s$, or $i$):$\\$
$ndp[0] = dp[0] + 1 \\$
$ndp[1] = dp[1] \\$
$ndp[2] = dp[2] \\$
$ndp[3] = dp[3] \\$
$ndp[4] = dp[4] \\$
$ndp[5] = dp[5] \\$
$newans = ans \\$

> Representing these linear recurrences with matrices and multiplying all the matrices in the order from the one representing position $1$ to position $n$ would allow us to compute our answer. We can optimize updates by building a segment tree on the matrices and updating each node with a respective matrix representing a given letter.

Reviewer 2: "Representing these linear recurrences with matrices and multiplying all the matrices in the order from the one representing position $1$ to position $n$ would allow us to compute our answer." this sounds really long and hard to understand

Author: I reworded. Hopefully it's better now?

Reviewer 2: Yes

The $i$-th column $(1 \leq i \leq 6)$ of each matrix represents $dp[i - 1]$, the seventh column of each matrix represents the answer, and the eighth column of each matrix is a constant $1$ so we can add $1$ to $dp[0]$ at every index.

Note that if the letter is $e$, we need to set $mat[5][6]$ as $n - i + 1$.

> To extract the answer from our matrices, we can multiply the $1 \times 6$ matrix representing the initial state of our dp $[0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1]$ by the product of all the matrices and look at the value in the $2$nd to last column, which is equivalent to the value of $mat[7][6]$.

Reviewer 2: "and look at the value in the $2$nd to last column, which is equivalent to the value of $mat[7][6]$." this is kinda weird figure a different way to word or a different place to add it

Author: I reworded (and fixed part of the explanation).

---
id: usaco-1332
source: USACO Platinum 2023 March
title: Pareidolia
author: Aakash Gokhale
---

## Explanation

Let's first try to solve the problem without updates on a single string.

> Notice that it is always optimal to take the earliest $b$ and then the earliest $e$ and then the earliest $i$ after that and so on because it maximizes the number of places you can search to find the next letter of "bessie".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Notice that it is always optimal to take the earliest $b$ and then the earliest $e$ and then the earliest $s$ after that and so on because it maximizes the number of places you can search to find the next letter of "bessie".
```

> Let's first try to solve the problem without updates on a single string.
> Notice that it is always optimal to take the earliest $b$ and then the earliest $e$ and then the earliest $s$ after that and so on because it maximizes the number of places you can search to find the next letter of "bessie".
> 
> Now let's try to solve the problem without updates for all substrings.
> Let $dp[i]$ be the number of positions of the string we have processed so far such that if we apply the greedy strategy described above, the next character we need to add is the $i$th character ($0$ indexed) of the string "bessie". We add $1$ to $dp[0]$ for every position of the string which represents the substring starting from the current index.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, let's solve the problem without updating a single string.

Notice that it is always optimal to take the earliest $b$, then the earliest $e$, then the earliest $s$ after that and so on because it maximizes the number of places you can search to find the following letter of "bessie."
		
Now try solving the problem without updates for all substrings.

Let $dp[i]$ be the number of positions of the string processed so far such that if we apply the greedy strategy described above, the next character we need to add is the $i$th character ($0$ indexed) of the string "bessie."

We add $1$ to $dp[0]$ for every string position, representing the substring starting from the current index.
```

Reviewer 2: This sentence "We add $1$ to $dp[0]$ for every string position, representing the substring starting from the current index." doesn't really make sense

Author: Is it better now?

Reviewer 2: Yes
